# Correct Horse: A memorable passphrase generator

Correct Horse is a tool for generating resonable secure but reasonable
memorable passphrases. It does this by picking a set of words from a
dictionary and then sorting them into an order that plausibly makes
sense as a phrase. It can be used either as a command line tool to
generate and print a passphrase that one might enter into another
application or through an API to pick new passphrases for something
like a rotating code on a WiFi network.

## Usage

### Command line

```
correcthorse [-h] [-n WORD_COUNT] [-l] [-c] [-u] [-s] [-j] [-H]
                   [-S SEPARATOR] [-f FILENAME] [-L LOCALE]
```

Use the `-n  WORD_COUNT` or `--word-count WORD_COUNT` option to set the number of words in the passphrase.

The `-l` or `--lower-case` will cause all of the words in the passphrase to be printed in lower case while the `-c` or `--capitalise` flag will cause the first letter of each word to be capitalised. The default is to capitalise the first letter.

When the words of the passphrase are printed a seperator string will be placed between then. This can be set using the `-S SEPARATOR` or `--separator SEPARATOR` option. For convenience you can use `-u` or `--underscore` to join the words with an underscore, `-s` or `--space` to join the words with a space, `-H` or `--hyphen` to join the words with a hyphen or `-j` or `--join` to simply run the words together without a separator.

By default `correcthorse` will detect your locale and pick a word set that matches your local language. You can override the detected locale using the `-L LOCALE` or `--locale LOCALE` options. While great in theory, unless your language is English the chances are that currently there is no built in word file for your language. You can however specify a custom word file using the `-f FILENAME`or `--word-file FILENAME` options. 

### Use as a python module

To use the `correcthorse` module through the API create an instance of the `WordSet` using `WordSet(filename=None, locale=None, encoding='UTF-8')` and then call `random_phrase(word_count=4)`.

## Dictionary and grammar file format

It is possible to provide `correcthorse` with new lists from which to draw the words of the passphrase. The strucutre of this is pretty simple; it is a sequence of blocks of text separated by one or more blank lines, with optional metadata lines starting with `#*` follow by a JSON object and optional (ignored) comment lines which start with just a `#` character.

The key to the functioning of `correcthorse` is that once a set of words is drawn (uniformly, within the contstraints in the metadata) from the whole list of words the words are then sorted such words drawn from earlier text blocks will occur earlier in the resulting list and words drawn from later block will be presented later. This makes use of the fact that in English there is an implicit order in which adjectives are used as well as to where adjectives sit relative to nouns. Thus one would normally say _lovely little green plant_ rather than _green little lovely plant_ (let alone _lovely plant green little_). By observing this ordering the phrases generated by `correcthorse` tend to be more memorable than if the words were in a random order. The sorting of the words looses a little bit of the entropy in the passphrase but this is compensated for by using a fairly large word list.

## A warning about offensive prases

Some care has been taken to try to remove words that might result in offensive phrases, in particular by removing words that are generally pejorative and words that are specific to groups of people. That said, there is still a small chance that some of the phrases may be onsidered offensive by some people, or may be thought to be risqué as a result of some double entendre. Without having access to a fully sentient AI system it's not easy filter these out but hopefully they will be rare. 

## License

Correct Horse is released under the Apache License, Version 2.0.

## What's with the weird name?

The name Correct Horse comes from the excellent [XKCD](https://xkcd.com/) cartoon by Randall Munroe about [generating good passwords](https://xkcd.com/936/).
